this is part of a new generation of OLED
displays that LG is calling dual mode it
allows you to switch between the native
4K resolution and 1080p resolution wait
you must be thinking I can do that on my
monitor right now is my monitor dual
mode or no DEA mode yes but also no if
you have a Modern Display it may be
capable of interpreting a signal in all
of those different modes but only one of
them is native that is able to be
displayed cleanly without any scaling
that is the trick here or at least it
would be if it worked as well as this
segue to our sponsor ug green their
super compact two-in-one magnetic
foldable charging station features a
15wt ch2 charger for your phone a 5w
wireless charger for earbuds and a pass
through port for plugging in a USBC
cable check it out at the link below
[Music]
before we get into the details let's
just try the two different modes because
there is more to this than just setting
it to the ideal mode and then forgetting
about it forever in theory a display
like this can offer The Best of Both
Worlds right now what we're looking at
is 4K 240 HZ obviously there's
outstanding picture Clarity amazing
motion Clarity but because of how human
Vision Works OLED is is still going to
have some drawbacks compared to a
classic CRT monitor that is unless you
use black frame insertion to
artificially strobe the image so to my
eyes this is this is pretty darn clear
even with fast onscreen movements but it
can be better we experimented with this
before we started and it turns out mid
game at least in this game I can just
press the mode toggle button
and now we're looking at 1080p 4 180 HZ
we still get the same outstanding HDR
and color performance but at this size I
would say the image Clarity is a bit of
a drag the upside is that by running at
a lower resolution we overcome the
limitations of our display port link and
we can run it a whopping 480 Refreshers
per second now I already spoke about
this in detail when I took my first look
at alienware's new 500 HZ display but in
a nutshell it makes more of a difference
than you would probably imagine for
reasons that we'll get into later in
terms of the subjective experience it's
great like I just can't miss heads with
this thing you know got him which is
really cool but why can't I just go into
the advanced Windows menu and change my
refresh rate here there dual mode right
well no since the days of this connector
monitors have included a bit of metadata
called called an edid the ID's purpose
is to report the display's capabilities
to any connected device be it a computer
game console or what have you this
monitor has two eids which can be
toggled through the OSD or this little
button right here we extracted them we
ran them through an interpreter and we
had a look at the output end
surprisingly the only major difference
is that the 4K mode will not allow the
display to be driven past 240 HZ
regardless of the configured resolution
in the window settings and the 1080p
edid doesn't list as many resolutions
and maxes out at 1080p 480 HZ if you try
to force feed it 4K resolution in 1080P
mode it will actually scale that input
down to 1080P and then back up again to
the native 4K of the panel why did they
feel the need to do this well we have
some theories but let's come back to
them after we've talked about the
performance of the display and
determined whether this thing is even
worth jumping through all these hoops
for starting with color accuracy srgb
mode is solidly okay the color
temperature is a little cool but if you
don't know what that means you're
unlikely to notice it and if you do you
can simply calibrate your troubles away
at least unless you want to use gamer
mode unfortunately it is tuned for
colors that are pretty but not accurate
no problem just ignore it then right I
guess but unless you're using one of the
first four listed display modes an extra
frame of processing latency gets added
at 480 HZ or 240 HZ for that matter it's
not such a big deal but if you use
adaptive sync for smoother animations
and your GPU doesn't happen to be god
tier it could be a problem for you in
HDR we measured both low Peak brightness
mode and high peak brightness mode low
is best viewed in a dim room while high
managed to over 1,00 nits in a 1% window
for dazzling highlights now let's talk
about responsiveness this is a gaming
monitor first and foremost and both of
the modes are great but they have some
small differences because it refreshes
at half the rate the 4K mode has
inherently worse input latency of course
we're talking about a difference of
about 1 millisecond so who cares right
well hold on we've said for years that
there's a point of diminishing returns
past about 240 HZ but the reason that
faster matters for OLED displays is
because of how our eyes perceive motion
by switching more frequently we will see
fast moving objects with better Clarity
the 1080p mode has a curious trait of
its own though if you run it at a lower
refresh rate the latency goes up more
faster than you would expect perhaps it
has something to do with scaling those
inputs it is a 4K native panel
regardless of whether it's running in a
1080p mode and scaling is impossible to
avoid on a Modern Display because these
panels are made up of a fixed array of
pixels that can't change in size or
shape by contrast classic CRTs had no
concept of physical pixels they could
adjust the beams to draw tighter lines
for higher resolution even if it came at
the cost of brightness or refresh rate
now sometimes scaling can be simple 4K
happens to be exactly four times the
number of pixels as 1080p so that's fine
you just double in each mention a voila
perfect clarity just with bigger blocks
this is called integer scaling because
the higher resolution can cleanly be
divided by the lower one 4K also happens
to be divisible by 720p and for you
retro Gamers 240p as well so you would
think that we would use that kind of
scaling as often as possible but as it
turns out most displays just throw a
blurry ambing filter on it and call it a
day of course
this isn't most displays is it if LG
expects you to use 1080p mode it had
better be clean so how does it hold up
as it turns out pretty okay even in 4k
mode it seems like it's trying to do
integer scaling it's sharper than you'd
expect but if you look closely each
1080p pixel is offset down to the right
by half of a 4K
pixel okay hold on a second L is half a
pixel you just told me they couldn't
change size and shape okay yes but check
this out we've established that integer
scaling converts four physical pixels
into a single virtual 1080p pixel if you
offset that by half a pixel in each
Dimension now that one pixel takes up
nine at 4K one in the middle and 8 half
pixels on each side at first we thought
this must be some kind of intentional
scaling thing
but after looking at how it affects the
corner pixels we think it's actually
just an off by one error somewhere in
the display logic that Maps the scaled
image to the panel we get to see how
well it actually scales if we try any
other resolution including 720p
and it gets blurred this is unfortunate
because they could have integer scaled
720p as well that would mean that the
Lion's Share of common resolutions over
the past two decades would look perfect
on this display at 480 HZ that would be
awesome if LG could rectify it in the
future but if not it's a pitfall that
hopefully at least other manufacturers
who use a similar technology can avoid
in the future and in LG's defense it's
not really a deal breaker in 4k mode you
can still use integer scaling on your
GPU driver or you can use upscaling
methods like dlss and FSR to render your
games at a lower resolution for better
performance and then output 4K native
from your GPU which is obviously going
to look perfect the question then
becomes why does the 1080p mode exist
and should you bother to use it well our
best educated guess for why the mode
switch even has to happen is that the
timing controller or the tcon needs to
be reset to change its Behavior even
though 1080p at 480 HZ requires half of
the bandwidth of 4K at 240 HZ 480 HZ is
fast in terms of time so the timing
controller probably can't directly
address the full 4K pixel Grid at that
crazy speed so instead it appears to use
a technique called line doubling
scanning out each line of the image
twice to reduce the processing load we
can verify that this is happening by
looking at the pixels rather than being
offset in both directions as 1080p
looked in the 4K mode now the image is
only offset to the right in summary then
intriguing product hopefully it's a
solution that we just won't need a few
years from now but if you want
tomorrow's Tech technology today and you
don't mind pressing this switch
depending on what mode you want to run
in and what game you're running and also
if you don't mind spending
$1,400 you're getting a genuinely
impressive piece of technology even if
there are a few limitations it also
makes me even more excited for the day
after tomorrow no not that one uh when
we see updated tcons that can push even
greater than 480 HZ because with pixel
response times that are in the .3
millisecond range OLED has a lot more
headro to be pushed and while 600 HZ or
heck even this 480 HZ display is going
to be endgame territory for most people
perfect to the ey motion Clarity could
require closer to 1,000 HZ or even more
which is so fast that if you blink
you'll miss it like the segue to our
sponsor delete me privacy isn't just
about individuals it's about families
that's why delete me is expanding to
cover everyone you care about there new
family plans make sharing and caring as
simple as it can get with their family
account management you can easily add
family members ensuring personalized
protection for each person their privacy
first design means every family member
gets their own data sheet keeping their
online footprint secure from kids to
adults everyone's covered reducing the
risk of exposure spam and scams and with
simplified management overseeing your
family's privacy has never been easier
choose delete me for peace of mind for
your entire family in the digital world
check him out at the link below today
and use the code LT at checkout for 20%
off thanks for watching guys go check
out that time we pitted an OLED against
an HD crrt for a little bit more on the
importance of motion Clarity let's go
finish the match